# Errors and warnings / CW10003

Every function call in Pine leaves a trail of historical values that a script can access on subsequent bars using the [] operator. The historical series of functions depend on successive calls to record the output on every bar. When a script does not call functions on each bar, it can produce an inconsistent history that may impact calculations and results, namely when it depends on the continuity of their historical series to operate as expected. The compiler warns users in these cases to make them aware that the values from a function, whether built-in or user-defined, might be misleading.
To demonstrate, let’s write a script that calculates the index of the current bar and outputs that value on every second bar. In the following script, we’ve defined a calcBarIndex() function that adds 1 to the previous value of its internal index variable on every bar. The script calls the function on each bar that the condition returns true on (every other bar) to update the customIndex value. It plots this value alongside the built-in bar_index to validate the output:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("My script")

//@function Calculates the index of the current bar by adding 1 to its own value from the previous bar.
// The first bar will have an index of 0.
calcBarIndex() =>
    int index = na
    index := nz(index[1], replacement = -1) + 1

//@variable Returns `true` on every other bar.
condition = bar_index % 2 == 0

int customIndex = na

// Call `calcBarIndex()` when the `condition` is `true`. This prompts the compiler to raise a warning.
if condition
    customIndex := calcBarIndex()

plot(bar_index,   "Bar index",    color = color.green)
plot(customIndex, "Custom index", color = color.red, style = plot.style_cross)
```
Note that:

The nz() function replaces na values with a specified replacement value (0 by default). On the first bar of the script, when the index series has no history, the na value is replaced with -1 before adding 1 to return an initial value of 0.

Upon inspecting the chart, we see that the two plots differ wildly. The reason for this behavior is that the script called calcBarIndex() within the scope of an if structure on every other bar, resulting in a historical output inconsistent with the bar_index series. When calling the function once every two bars, internally referencing the previous value of index gets the value from two bars ago, i.e., the last bar the function executed on. This behavior results in a customIndex value of half that of the built-in bar_index.
To align the calcBarIndex() output with the bar_index, we can move the function call to the script’s global scope. That way, the function will execute on every bar, allowing its entire history to be recorded and referenced rather than only the results from every other bar. In the code below, we’ve defined a globalScopeBarIndex variable in the global scope and assigned it to the return from calcBarIndex() rather than calling the function locally. The script sets the customIndex to the value of globalScopeBarIndex on the occurrence of the condition:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("My script")

//@function Calculates the index of the current bar by adding 1 to its own value from the previous bar.
// The first bar will have an index of 0.
calcBarIndex() =>
    int index = na
    index := nz(index[1], replacement = -1) + 1

//@variable Returns `true` on every second bar.
condition = bar_index % 2 == 0

globalScopeBarIndex = calcBarIndex()
int customIndex = na

// Assign `customIndex` to `globalScopeBarIndex` when the `condition` is `true`. This won't produce a warning.
if condition
    customIndex := globalScopeBarIndex

plot(bar_index,   "Bar index",    color = color.green)
plot(customIndex, "Custom index", color = color.red, style = plot.style_cross)
```
This behavior can also radically impact built-in functions that reference history internally. For example, the ta.sma() function references its past values “under the hood”. If a script calls this function conditionally rather than on every bar, the values within the calculation can change significantly. We can ensure calculation consistency by assigning ta.sma() to a variable in the global scope and referencing that variable’s history as needed.
The following example calculates three SMA series: controlSMA, localSMA, and globalSMA. The script calculates controlSMA in the global scope and localSMA within the local scope of an if structure. Within the if structure, it also updates the value of globalSMA using the controlSMA value. As we can see, the values from the globalSMA and controlSMA series align, whereas the localSMA series diverges from the other two because it uses an incomplete history, which affects its calculations:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("My script")

//@variable Returns `true` on every second bar.
condition = bar_index % 2 == 0

controlSMA = ta.sma(close, 20)
float globalSMA = na
float localSMA  = na

// Update `globalSMA` and `localSMA` when `condition` is `true`.
if condition
    globalSMA := controlSMA        // No warning.
    localSMA  := ta.sma(close, 20) // Raises warning. This function depends on its history to work as intended.

plot(controlSMA, "Control SMA", color = color.green)
plot(globalSMA,  "Global SMA",  color = color.blue, style = plot.style_cross)
plot(localSMA,   "Local SMA",   color = color.red,  style = plot.style_cross)
```
A more detailed explanation of the full logic that governs this behavior can be found in the Time series in scopes section of the Execution model page.
Why this behavior?
This behavior is required because forcing the execution of functions on each bar would lead to unexpected results in those functions that produce side effects, i.e., the ones that do something aside from returning the value. For example, the label.new() function creates a label on the chart, so forcing it to be called on every bar even when it is inside of an if structure would create labels where they should not logically appear.
Exceptions
Not all built-in functions use their previous values in their calculations, meaning not all require execution on every bar. For example, math.max() compares all arguments passed into it to return the highest value. Such functions that do not interact with their history in any way do not require special treatment.
If the usage of a function within a conditional block does not cause a compiler warning, it’s safe to use without impacting calculations. Otherwise, move the function call to the global scope to force consistent execution. When keeping a function call within a conditional block despite the warning, ensure the output is correct at the very least to avoid unexpected results.         Previous       CE10101      Next   RE10139              On this pageThe function “X” should be called on each calculation for consistency. It is recommended to extract the call from this scope.Why this behavior?Exceptions