# Errors and warnings / RE10143

Pine scripts calculate on every bar on the chart, sequentially, left to right, maintaining a historical buffer of values. When a script needs to use a value from a previous bar, it takes that value from the buffer. If a script tries to access a value from a bar further back than the historical buffer extends, it throws this error.
As a simple example, if your code includes a line like plot(myVar[500]), the script keeps a buffer of the last 500 historical values of the myVar variable. This buffer ensures that on every execution, the myVar variable has access to its value 500 bars before the current one.
Pine creates the historical buffer in a way that minimizes issues:

Initially, the script calculates the historical buffers based on the data from the first several hundred bars. If historical offsets are constant, or if future offsets are not greater than the offsets found during this calculation, the script works without issues. The example above does not cause any issues because the variable is called in the global scope with a constant offset of 500. On the first iteration of the script, it is clear that the buffer size needs to be 500.
If the script requests a value outside the buffer during calculation on historical data, the script tries to adjust the buffer to a proper length automatically. The script increases the buffer and restarts. This can happen several times until either the re-run limit is reached or the script calculates without the error.

The error can still appear on historical data, but is more likely to occur on realtime data, which is not covered by automatic buffer detection. For example, the following script works when the user first adds it to the chart, but fails with an error when the first realtime tick arrives. This behaviour can be replicated consistently by turning on the Bar Replay feature and pressing Step Forward once. This happens because on historical data, we request close[500], which establishes the size of the historical buffer as 500. When we request close[1000] on the first realtime bar, the script returns an error because the requested value is outside the buffer:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Error on realtime bars")
myVar = close[barstate.ishistory ? 500 : 1000]
plot(myVar)
```
To fix this, we need to ensure the historical buffer of our variable (in this case, close) is always large enough.
NoticeThe maximum possible buffer size for most variables is 5000, and referring further into the past causes a different runtime error. To avoid that error, programmers can limit the requested offsets by using expressions such as math.min(myVar, 5000).
The following sections describe different methods to ensure that the historical buffer is of a sufficient size.
Potential fixes
Use the ​max_bars_back()​ function
The max_bars_back() function sets the size of the historical buffer for a particular variable. To fix the issue in the example script above, we need to ensure the buffer for close is at least 1000:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Error on realtime bars")
myVar = close[barstate.ishistory ? 500 : 1000]
max_bars_back(close, 1000)
plot(myVar)
```
Use the ​max_bars_back​ parameter of the ​indicator()​ or ​strategy()​ function
The max_bars_back parameter of the indicator() and strategy() functions provides a handy way to increase the historical buffer for all the variables inside of the script. However, increasing the historical buffer for all variables without a specific need for it negatively impacts performance. Using the max_bars_back() function is preferable because it is more precise and more performant.
NoticeWhen using max_bars_back, choose the minimum default buffer size that accommodates all the script’s historical references. Buffer sizes that are larger than what a script requires can significantly impact its performance. For example, using max_bars_back = 5000 in a script that references up to only 700 bars back causes an excessive use of resources.
Use the maximum value manually on history to force a proper buffer size
Another way to set a specific historical buffer is to call the variable on historical data with the maximum buffer required, regardless of whether it’s needed or not at the moment. For example, the script below assigns the myVar variable a close[1000] value on the very first bar of the dataset. It makes no practical difference — on the first bar, all past values are na — but because of this change, the script sets the variable’s buffer to 1000 and can then work on realtime bars without issues:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Error on realtime bars")
myVar = close[barstate.isfirst ? 1000 : barstate.ishistory ? 500 : 1000]
plot(myVar)
```
Max bars back with Pine drawings
A common reason for the historical offset error is creating drawings that are drawn on realtime data, but extend into the past. For example, the code below runs into the runtime error as soon as the first realtime tick arrives:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Realtime error with drawings")

if barstate.isrealtime
    line.new(bar_index[500], close, bar_index, close)
```
NoteAll Pine drawings that anchor to the chart convert their horizontal coordinates into time values internally, even if the programmer defines those coordinates using bar_index values.
When the example indicator above is calculating on historical data, it does not draw any lines, and so does not call the time series at all. In this case, the time series takes the default buffer size of 300. On realtime bars, we then request the bar_index[500] value, which is converted into time[500] by the function. But the script doesn’t have a large enough historical buffer, which causes the error to appear.
In these cases, the historical buffer for the time series must be enlarged, even if the drawing functions use bar_index exclusively. The easiest fix is to call the max_bars_back() function on the time series, to ensure that its buffer is large enough:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Realtime error with drawings")

max_bars_back(time, 500)

if barstate.isrealtime
    line.new(bar_index[500], close, bar_index, close)         Previous       RE10139           On this pageThe requested historical offset (X) is beyond the historical buffer’s limit (Y)Potential fixesUse the max_bars_back() functionUse the max_bars_back parameter of the indicator() or strategy() functionUse the maximum value manually on history to force a proper buffer sizeMax bars back with Pine drawings
```