# Errors and warnings / RE10139

The most common cause of this error is the retrieval of objects and collections from request.*() functions such as request.security(). Other possible causes include unnecessary drawing updates, excess historical buffer capacity, or inefficient use of max_bars_back().
Returning collections from ​request.*()​ functions
The “Memory limits exceeded” error most often occurs when a script uses request.*() functions to retrieve objects or collections from another symbol or timeframe.
When requesting data from other contexts, the data for each bar is copied and stored in memory to allow the script to reference it later in the main context. This can use a lot of memory, depending on the data. Requesting large collections can easily lead to excessive memory consumption.
The example script below uses request.security() to retrieve the result of a user-defined function evaluated on the “1D” timeframe. The custom function (dataFunction()) creates an array and assigns its reference to a persistent variable declared using the `var` keyword, then pushes a new balance of power (BOP) value into the array and returns the collection’s reference on each bar. Each time that request.security() evaluates the dataFunction() call on the “1D” timeframe, the result references a new copy of that array. Retrieving a new array from a requested context on each bar consumes a lot of memory. Therefore, this script can exceed the memory limits when running on symbols with a sufficiently lengthy history:
```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("BOP array in higher timeframe context", "Memory limit demo")

//@variable User-input length for calculating average of BOP values. 
int avgLength = input.int(5, "Average BOP Length", minval = 1)

//Returns a copy of the `dataArray` on every bar, which uses a lot of memory.
dataFunction() => 
    //@variable Persistent array containing the "balance of power" (BOP) values for all bars from the higher timeframe.
    var array<float> dataArray = array.new<float>(0)

    //@variable The "balance of power" percentage calculated for the current bar.
    float bop = (close - open) / (high - low) * 100
    dataArray.push(bop)

    //Return the full collection.
```
    dataArray

// Request the full BOP array from the 1D timeframe.
array<float> reqData = request.security(syminfo.tickerid, "1D", dataFunction())

// Plot zero line.
hline(0, "Zero line", color.gray, hline.style_dotted)

// Latest BOP value and average BOP are calculated in the main context if `reqData` is not `na`.
```pinescript
//@variable The latest BOP value from the `reqData` array.
float latestValue = na
//@variable The average of the last `avgLength` BOP values.
float avgBOP = na

if not na(reqData)
    // Retrieve BOP value for the current main context bar.
    latestValue := reqData.last()

    // Calculate the average BOP for the most-recent values from the higher timeframe array.
    //@variable Size of the `reqData` array returned from the higher timeframe.
    int dataSize = reqData.size()
    //@variable A subset of the latest values from the `reqData` array. Its size is determined by the `avgLength` set.
```
    array<float> lastValues = dataSize >= avgLength ? reqData.slice(dataSize - avgLength, dataSize): reqData
    avgBOP := lastValues.avg()

// Plot the BOP value and average line.
color plotColor = latestValue >= 0 ? color.aqua : color.orange
plot(latestValue, "BOP", plotColor, style = plot.style_columns)
plot(avgBOP, "Avg", color.purple, linewidth = 3)
How do I fix this?
Optimize requests and limit the data returned to the main context to ensure that only the minimum necessary data is stored in memory.
If possible, try to return calculated results directly rather than returning the collections themselves, or only return collections conditionally, when they are necessary in the main context.
Let’s consider a few common scenarios where scripts need specific data in the main context.
Return last state only
If a script requires only the latest state of a requested collection, use a conditional structure or expression with barstate.islast as the condition to limit retrieving a copy of that collection to the last available bar.
Here, we modified our script to display only the latest average BOP (a single value), rather than plotting an average line. The updated request function now returns the calculated BOP values directly for each bar, and returns the higher timeframe’s array only on the last bar:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("BOP array on last bar", "Memory limit demo")

//@variable User-input length for calculating average of BOP values. 
int avgLength = input.int(5, "Average BOP Length", minval = 1)

// Returns the calculated `bop` each bar, and a copy of the `dataArray` on the last bar or `na` otherwise.
dataFunction() => 
    //@variable Persistent array containing the "balance of power" (BOP) values for all higher timeframe bars.
    var array<float> dataArray = array.new<float>(0)

    //@variable The "balance of power" percentage calculated for the current higher timeframe bar.
    float bop = (close - open) / (high - low) * 100
    dataArray.push(bop)

    // Return the collection on the last bar only.
    if barstate.islast
        [bop, dataArray]
    else 
        [bop, na]

// Request calculated BOP value, and BOPs array if on last bar, from the higher timeframe.
[reqValue, reqData] = request.security(syminfo.tickerid, "1D", dataFunction())

// Plot zero line.
hline(0, "Zero line", color.gray, hline.style_dotted)

// Plot the BOP value for each main context bar.
color plotColor = reqValue >= 0 ? color.aqua : color.orange
plot(reqValue, "BOP", plotColor, style = plot.style_columns)

// Calculate the average BOP for most-recent values from the higher timeframe array, and display result in a table cell.
if not na(reqData)
    //@variable Size of the `reqData` array returned from the higher timeframe.
    int dataSize = reqData.size()
    //@variable A subset of the latest values from the `reqData` array. Its size is determined by the `avgLength` set.
```
    array<float> lastValues = dataSize >= avgLength ? reqData.slice(dataSize - avgLength, dataSize): reqData
```pinescript
    //@variable The average of the last `avgLength` BOP values.
    float avgBOP = lastValues.avg()

    // Display latest average value in a single-cell table.
    var table displayTable = table.new(position.bottom_right, 1, 1, color.purple)
    displayTable.cell(0, 0, "Avg of last " + str.tostring(avgLength) + " BOPs: " + str.tostring(avgBOP, "##.##") + "%", 
         text_color = color.white)
```
Return calculated results
If a script needs the result of a calculation on a collection, but does not need the collection itself in the main context, use a user-defined function as the request expression. The function can calculate on the collection in the requested context and return only the result to the main context.
For example, we can calculate the average BOP directly within our request function. Therefore, only the calculated values are stored in memory, and the request expression returns a tuple (current BOP and average BOP) to plot the results in the main context:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Return BOP results only", "Memory limit demo")

//@variable User-input length for calculating average of BOP values. 
int avgLength = input.int(5, "Average BOP Length", minval = 1)

// Returns the calculated `bop` and `avgBOP` values directly.
dataFunction() => 
    //@variable Persistent array containing the "balance of power" (BOP) values for all higher timeframe bars.
    var array<float> dataArray = array.new<float>(0)

    //@variable The "balance of power" percentage calculated for the current higher timeframe bar.
    float bop = (close - open) / (high - low) * 100
    dataArray.push(bop)

    // Calculate the average BOP for the `avgLength` most-recent values.
    //@variable Size of the `dataArray`.
    int dataSize = dataArray.size()
    //@variable A subset of the latest values from the `dataArray`. Its size is determined by the `avgLength` set.
```
    array<float> lastValues = dataSize >= avgLength ? dataArray.slice(dataSize - avgLength, dataSize): dataArray
```pinescript
    //@variable The average of the last `avgLength` BOP values.
    float avgBOP = lastValues.avg()

    //Return the calculated results.
    [bop, avgBOP]

// Request BOP and average BOP values from the higher timeframe.
[reqValue, reqAverage] = request.security(syminfo.tickerid, "1D", dataFunction())

// Plot zero line.
hline(0, "Zero line", color.gray, hline.style_dotted)

// Plot the BOP value and average line.
color plotColor = reqValue >= 0 ? color.aqua : color.orange
plot(reqValue, "BOP", plotColor, style = plot.style_columns)
plot(reqAverage, "Avg", color.purple, linewidth = 3)
```
Return the collection on some bars
If a script needs to retrieve a collection in the main context, but not on every bar, use conditional structures or expressions that return collection references only the necessary bars, and na on other bars. The logic in the main context can then handle the na gaps in the series and perform necessary actions on the reduced collections.
For example, if we want to calculate the average BOP for each month instead of using a user-input length, we can return the array reference from the requested context only when there is a change to a new month; na otherwise. We can then maintain the previous month’s values in the main context to keep a valid array for all intra-month bars:

```pinescript
//@version=6
indicator("Monthly BOP array", "Memory limit demo")

// Returns the calculated `bop`, and a copy of the `dataArray` on a month's first trading day only, or `na` otherwise.
dataFunction() => 
    //@variable Persistent array containing the "balance of power" (BOP) values for all higher timeframe bars.
    var array<float> dataArray = array.new<float>(0)

    // When a new month starts, return monthly data array to calculate average BOP for completed month.
    //@variable Array is `na` except on first trading day of each month, when it contains completed month's BOP values. 
```
    array<float> returnArray = na
```pinescript
    //@variable Is `true` on the first bar of each month, `false` otherwise.
    bool isNewMonth = timeframe.change("1M")
    if isNewMonth
        returnArray := dataArray
    //Clear persistent array to start storing new month's data.
    if isNewMonth[1]
        dataArray.clear()

    //@variable The "balance of power" percentage calculated for the current higher timeframe bar.
    float bop = (close - open) / (high - low) * 100
    dataArray.push(bop)

    //Return the calculated result and the `returnArray`.
    [bop, returnArray]

// Request BOP data from the higher timeframe. (Returns calculated BOP and array of BOP values if new month starts)
[reqValue, reqData] = request.security(syminfo.tickerid, "1D", dataFunction())

// Calculate the average BOP for the most-recent completed month.
//@variable Persistent array that holds the BOP values for the most-recent completed month.
var array<float> completedMonthBOPs = array.new<float>(0)
// If new month starts (i.e., `reqData` is not returned as `na`), then `completedMonthBOPs` is updated with new values.
// Otherwise, it persists the last valid values for the rest of the month to adjust for `na` gaps.
completedMonthBOPs := na(reqData) ? completedMonthBOPs : reqData
//@variable The average BOP for the most-recent completed month.
float avgBOP = completedMonthBOPs.avg()

// Plot the BOP value and average line.
color plotColor = reqValue >= 0 ? color.aqua : color.orange
plot(reqValue, "BOP", plotColor, style = plot.style_columns)
plot(avgBOP, "Avg", color.purple, linewidth = 3)
```
Other possible error sources and their fixes
There are a few other ways to optimize scripts to consume less memory.
Minimize ​request.*()​ calls
The request.*() functions can be computationally expensive to call, because they retrieve data from additional datasets. Data requests often require significant usage of runtime and memory resources. Excessive or inefficient requests can easily cause scripts to reach the memory limit.
This memory consumption is especially substantial for scripts requesting data from lower timeframes, because the request.security_lower_tf() function returns arrays of intrabar data for each bar in the script’s main dataset. For example, requesting data from the “1” (one-minute) timeframe on a “1D” chart returns hundreds of minute bars for each “1D” bar where the request executes. In the process, the script must allocate memory to store each requested array so that it can access them later in the main context. Maintaining that much data in memory requires a significant amount of resources.
Programmers can reduce the memory requirements of a script’s requests by:

Removing unnecessary request.*() function calls.
Changing the timeframe of a request to a higher timeframe, effectively reducing the number of retrieved data points.
Condensing multiple requests to the same context into a single request.*() call.
Using the request.*() function’s calc_bars_count parameter to restrict the historical bars in the requested dataset.

See the Minimizing `request.*()` calls section of the Profiling and optimization page to learn more about optimizing data requests.
Use ​max_bars_back​ only when necessary
The max_bars_back parameter of an indicator or strategy sets the size of the historical buffers for all series in a script. Each buffer defines the number of historical data points maintained in memory for the script’s variables and expressions.
By default, the Pine Script runtime system automatically allocates an appropriate buffer for each variable and expression. Therefore, using the max_bars_back parameter or max_bars_back() function is necessary only when Pine cannot determine the referencing length of a series.
If you encounter the referencing length error and must manually set the size of a historical buffer using the max_bars_back parameter or the max_bars_back() function, ensure that you select the minimum size that accommodates your script’s historical references. Historical buffers that contain more data points than a script requires use excessive memory resources. Read up on how to optimize using max_bars_back in this Help Center article.
Minimize historical buffer calculations
The Pine Script runtime system automatically creates historical buffers for all variables and expressions in a script. It determines the size of each buffer based on the historical references that the script performs via the [] history-referencing operator or the functions that reference history internally.
As a script loads on a dataset, historical references to distant points in the dataset can cause the system to reload the script and increase the size of necessary historical buffers. Each increase to historical buffer sizes leads to increased memory consumption. In some cases, buffer resizing can cause the script to exceed the memory limits. Therefore, ensure a script references only necessary historical data in its calculations. When possible, modify the script’s logic to avoid referencing very distant points in history.
Specifying a calc_bars_count argument in the indicator() or strategy() declaration statement can help reduce memory issues, because it restricts the number of historical bars that the script can use for its calculations. Similarly, using max_bars_back() to manually define the appropriate size for a buffer can help reduce buffer calculations. When using this function to specify the size of historical buffers, choose the smallest possible size that accommodates the script’s historical references to avoid unnecessary memory use.
To learn more about historical buffer calculations and how to optimize them, see the Minimizing historical buffer calculations section of the Profiling and optimization page.
Reduce drawing updates for tables
Tables only display their last state on a chart. Any updates to a table on historical bars are redundant, because they are not visible. To use the least memory, draw the table once, and fill it on the last bar.
To create a table object only once, assign the result of the table.new() call to a variable declared with the var keyword. When using table.cell() or the available setter functions to modify the table’s contents, execute those function calls only on the last available bar — where the table’s latest state is visible — by placing the calls in a conditional structure that uses barstate.islast as the condition. See the Tables page to learn more.
Do not update drawings on historical bars
Similar to tables, any updates to other drawing objects such as lines and labels on historical bars are never visible to the user. The user sees only the drawing updates executed on realtime bars.
Eliminate updates to historical drawings during executions on historical bars wherever possible. Refer to the Reducing drawing updates section of the Profiling and optimization page for more information.
Minimize total drawings stored for a chart
Drawing objects such as lines and labels can consume a lot of memory, especially if a script recreates drawings unnecessarily.
For example, if a script draws a line from point x1 to x2, then needs to update the line’s endpoint (x2), it’s more computationally expensive to delete the existing line and redraw a new line from x1 to x3. Instead, using the setter function line.set_x2() to update the existing line’s endpoint is more efficient.
Look for ways to optimize drawing objects in a script:

Reduce unnecessary redrawing by assigning a single drawing object’s reference to a variable declared with the var keyword, then modifying that object’s properties with the available setter functions.

Remove unnecessary chart drawings with the *.delete() functions (e.g., line.delete() and label.delete()).

Reduce a script’s drawing limits by specifying values for the max_lines_count, max_labels_count, max_boxes_count, or max_polylines_count parameters of the indicator() or strategy() declaration statement.

Filter dates in strategies
The total number of trades or orders simulated by strategies can impact memory consumption. When running strategy scripts that generate frequent orders on large datasets, reduce the number of unnecessary historical orders stored in memory by limiting the starting point of your strategy.
To limit the starting point of a strategy, a simple and effective approach is to use a conditional structure that activates the strategy’s order placement commands only when the bar’s opening or closing time comes after a specified date.
See the How do I filter trades by a date or time range? portion of our Strategies FAQ page for an example of this technique.         Previous       CW10003      Next   RE10143              On this pageMemory limits exceededReturning collections from request.*() functionsHow do I fix this?Return last state onlyReturn calculated resultsReturn the collection on some barsOther possible error sources and their fixesMinimize request.*() callsUse max_bars_back only when necessaryMinimize historical buffer calculationsReduce drawing updates for tablesDo not update drawings on historical barsMinimize total drawings stored for a chartFilter dates in strategies